now let's consider the whippets neck and
body the neck is long
clean and muscular it is well arched
with no sign of 13 as' and whitens
gracefully into the shoulders a you neck
with its concave shape is incorrect and
should be penalized as should a thin
neck lacking proper muscle or a short
thick neck this correct neck is well
arched long clean and muscular it blends
gracefully into the shoulders which are
characterized by long well laid back
shoulder blades the muscle of the
shoulders is flat there should be
moderate space between the blades at the
withers the upper arm should be the same
length as the shoulder blade and is
placed such that the elbow falls
directly under the withers these
straight shoulders and straight upper
arms are incorrect and should be
strictly penalized as should a heavily
muscled or loaded shoulder these faults
will inhibit low free movement these
correct shoulders are long and well laid
back with proper length of upper arm and
flat clean muscle e the brisket is very
deep reaching as nearly as possible to
the point of the elbow the forelegs are
straight and get the appearance of
strength and substance of bone
the pasterns are strong slightly bent
and flexible weak or upright pasterns
should be strictly penalized the four
feet are well formed with hard thick
pads they are more hair foot shaped than
cat foot shaped although both are
acceptable the toes should be long
closed and well arched with the nails
naturally short or of moderate length
dewclaws may be removed from the front
good depth of chest should be evident
the brisket should reach as nearly as
possible to the elbow the space between
the front legs should be well filled in
so that there is no appearance of a
hollow bowed legs tied in elbows legs
lacking substance legs set far under the
body so as to create an exaggerated for
chest should be strictly penalized this
dog lacks fill in front and there is an
appearance of a hollow this dog displays
good depth of chest note again the clean
flat muscling of the shoulders and upper
arms with the elbows held straight to
the body turning neither in nor out the
whippets body has a broad firm well
muscled back there should be good length
over the loin the back line runs
smoothly from the withers and has a
graceful natural arch over the loin and
croup
this curve should be continuous without
either flatness or excessive arch the
highest point of the curve is over the
loin not the rib cage
what about this dogs back line the arch
is too accentuated giving a wheel backed
appearance while the arch should be
continuous it should appear natural and
graceful never exaggerated this top line
which drops off too steeply over the
loin and croup is also incorrect this
back line is correct running smoothly
from the withers with a graceful natural
arch over the loin and croup the brisket
is very deep reaching as nearly as
possible to the elbow and there is a
definite tuck up of the underlined note
the long and well sprung ribcage
extending well back allowing plenty of
room for heart and lung function without
causing the dog to appear barrel-chested
the tail is a continuation of the
graceful line from the loin and croup
it is long and tapering falling in a
long gentle curve the tail should reach
to the hip bone when drawn through
between the hind legs it is carried
below the level of the back at all times
the hindquarters are long and powerful
with broad muscular thighs and second
thighs and well vent broad stifles the
muscling should be long and flat and
carried well down toward the hocks the
Hawks are short well let down and
perpendicular to the ground when the dog
is standing these hindquarters are over
angulated the hips are low in
relationship to the withers the loin is
too short and the croup is steep from
the rear the powerful muscle n't along
with the good breath of upper and lower
thighs the hocks should be parallel
turning neither in nor out sickle hocks
or cal hocks should be strictly
penalized rear feet like the front feet
are well-formed with hard thick pads
dewclaws may be removed
remember that flat or splayed feet or
soft feet lacking thick hard pads on
either front or rear feet should be
severely penalized the Whippet is an
animal of graceful and continuous curves
the visual top-line begins at the back
of the skull and falls in a series of
descending curves to the back of the
back foot any awkwardness of line
impeding the progress of the eye along
the animal ten points a fault the
slightly arched neck flows gracefully
into the withers and the withers blend
into the brief flatness of the back
before the line Rises slightly over the
muscular loin this creates the top of
the curve that is reciprocated by the
curve of the brisket below the curve
eases to form a crew of about a thirty
degree angle to the ground the tail
continues to lead the eye into the
complimentary angles of stifle
and Hawk